# bloom-harvester
# Bloom Library Harvester
## Basic Idea
This will be a process that can download books stored in Bloom Library and then upload products based on them so that they are available to users.
## Development Dependencies
This program has various dependencies on DLLs and other outputs from BloomDesktop.
Run _build/getDependencies.ps1_ using Powershell.
This will download all the required dependencies to _lib/dotnet/_ as well as the _Debug_ and _Release_ build folders. Then open _BloomHarvester.sln_ in Visual Studio

### Local Bloom Dependencies
Normally, you can just use the getDependencies.ps1 script to pull in Bloom dependencies from the latest Bloom build. If you need to utilize your local Bloom build instead of an official build, you can use the _build/copyBloomDependencies.sh_ script.
- Make sure you have a BloomDesktop repository and have built it.
- Change directories to the Harvester's "build" folder. (The script makes some assumptions as to the location of the Harvester's build directory).
- Run the copyBloomDependencies.sh script with the following arguments: "./copyBloomDependencies.sh [pathToBloomDesktopRepository]"
- This script will copy the Bloom.exe and the relevant files from Bloom's output/browser and DistFiles folders into BloomHarvester's build folder.

## Setting Environment variables for runtime
You will need to set some or all of the following Environment variables to store some keys:
* BloomHarvesterAzureAppInsightsKey{Prod|Test|Dev}
  * Initially, you can contact jeffrey_su@sil.org for the keys. Later on, you should ask alex_crum@sil.org to be added to the Azure instance, and then you can go to the Azure Portal, find the dev-harvestAppInsights/test-harvestAppInsights/harvestAppInsights resource, and copy the Instrumentation Key from there.
* BloomHarvesterParseAppId{Prod|Test|Dev}
  * You can find this from Parse DB dashboard. Or contact andrew_polk@sil.org.
* BloomHarvesterS3[Secret]Key{Prod|Test|Dev}.
* BloomBooksS3[Secret]Key{Prod|Test|Dev}.
  * Ask Alex Crum, alex_crum@sil.org. You can also ask jeffrey_su@sil.org or john_thomson@sil.org.
  * The first set are for a user that can write to the harvester output bucket, the second set for one that can read from the bucket where it gets books.
* BloomHarvesterUserName
  * harvester@bloomlibrary.org
* BloomHarvesterUserPassword{Prod|Test|Dev|Local}
  * Ask jeffrey_su@sil.org or john_thomson@sil.org.

## Cleaning the build
If you want to make sure your build is really clean, running Clean Build in Visual Studio doesn't suffice. (VS Clean Build removes any files that were directly generated by Visual Studio's build process. It doesn't clean any other files that might be there, e.g. as a result of running our _getDependencies.ps1_ script.  You need to go into the directory it builds into and delete any or all unwanted files/subdirectories out of there.

## Deployment
There are some scripts provided to help setup or update a Harvester instance on an environment designed for running the Harvester continually. You can use the provided _build/updateDeployment.ps1_ script for both. It will download the latest builds, setup the new folder, shutdown any existing Harvester-related processes, swap the folders, and then startup Harvester-related processes again.
* Copy the _build/updateDeployment.ps1_ and _build/downloadAndExtractZip.ps1_ scripts to the deployment machine.
* Optional: Modify the paths at the top of the _updateDeployment.ps1_ script to point to the location where the Harvester should be saved.
* Optional: You may want to download RestartOnCrash and have that set up to monitor and quickly restart the application if it goes down. See _src/Monitoring/MonitoringReadme.txt_ for instructions if you wish to do so.
* For ad-hoc setup or update to the latest binaries, you can just run the _updateDeployment.ps1_ script using Powershell.
* If you want to run this at regular intervals, you can use the Windows Task Scheduler to setup a scheduled task to run this at the desired time intervals (e.g. once a day, once an hour, etc.). The command you should ask Task Scheduler to run is "Powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File [pathToUpdateDeploymentScript]". 

## Azure
Azure permissions:  If you want to view the logs or status in Azure Portal, you will obviously also need access to the specified resources.

### Searching for specific log text
1. portal.azure.com
2. All resources.
3. Find the appropriate resource. (It should be an ApplicationInsights resource). Probably named "harvestAppInsights" or "dev-harvestAppInsights"
4. Open up the "Search" blade.
5. You can type the text you want to search and it'll look through all the traces, events, etc. for it
### Viewing metrics
1. portal.azure.com
2. All resources.
3. Find the appropriate resource. (It should be an ApplicationInsights resource). Probably named "harvestAppInsights" or "dev-harvestAppInsights"
4. Open up the "Metrics" blade.
5. Ensure the appropriate resource is selected. You can select a Metric such as "Events" and Aggregation=Sum to see the total number of events in each time period.
6. To get the count for a specific event, you can click "Add filter" and Property EventName = [the event name in question]
### Querying tables via SQL-like Syntax
1. portal.azure.com
2. All resources.
3. Find the appropriate resource. (It should be an ApplicationInsights resource). Probably named "harvestAppInsights" or "dev-harvestAppInsights"
4. Open up the "Servers" blade.
5. Click the "Servers Logs / analytics" button.
6. On the left, you will see a list of tables. Find the relevant table, hover over it, and press the eye icon in the right side.
7. You can write various SQL-like queries. The language is called "Kusto", you can search for the language documentation for that to perform more sophisticated queries.
